# NBA-Analytics-PySpark
NBA game stats analysis with PySpark

The National Basketball Association (NBA) is the world’s most elite league for professional basketball.  The total points for each game determine the winner, however there are several key statistics documented each game that help to flesh out the whole story of which team won and why.  There are tons of data points for NBA games documented that are available for analysis. Sports data and Analytics is a field that has seen an increase in popularity over the past ten to fifteen years.  Teams want to give themselves every edge possible to put their teams in the best possible position to win as many games as possible.  Today teams are learning the importance of researching and understanding sports data and are leveraging its usefulness more and more.  The purpose of this project is to utilize the publicly available NBA api to analyze NBA games and implement a machine learning algorithm to learn to be able to predict the outcome of an NBA game.  

Accurate prediction of an NBA game has many useful applications in the real world.  Teams want to gain every advantage possible so understanding why certain outcomes are predicted can help teams to address the how and why their team may be predicted to win or lose a given game.  Teams can leverage this information to better prepare their teams to address certain strengths or weaknesses in their teams stats that can cost them a win or a loss on any given game.  Therefore for this project’s scope we will focus on creating a model that predicts the outcome of NBA games using only the team statistics for learning.  We will not be analyzing or predicting stats for individual players or team season long win totals.

For the purposes of this project we will be implementing machine learning algorithms from the Spark Machine Learning Library.  Spark is an incredibly useful big data technology that is easy to use, is fast, and is preferable to  implement for this kind of data project due to its parallel computing framework.  The spark machine learning library is also preferable to the alternative machine learning package, python’s SK Learn because Spark’s parallel framework allows for it to use much larger datasets (as well as larger training sets) for its machine learning purposes
